https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/phil/4?lang=eng
New Testament Title Page Matthew Contents Matthew 1 Christ is born of Mary—She conceives by the power of the Holy Ghost—Our Lord is named Jesus. Matthew 2 The wise men are directed by a star to Jesus—Joseph takes the child to Egypt—Herod slays the children in Bethlehem—Jesus is taken to Nazareth to dwell. Matthew 3 John the Baptist preaches in Judæa—Jesus is baptized, and the Father acclaims Him as His Beloved Son. Matthew 4 Jesus fasts forty days and is tempted—He begins His ministry, calls disciples, and heals the sick. Matthew 5 Jesus preaches the Sermon on the Mount—Its teachings replace and transcend some aspects of the law of Moses—All are commanded to be perfect like their Father in Heaven. Matthew 6 Jesus continues the Sermon on the Mount—He teaches the disciples the Lord’s Prayer—They are commanded to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. Matthew 7 Jesus concludes the Sermon on the Mount—He commands, Judge not; ask of God; beware of false prophets—He promises salvation to those who do the will of the Father. Matthew 8 Jesus heals a leper, cures the centurion’s servant and others, stills the tempest, and casts out devils—The devils enter a herd of swine. Matthew 9 Jesus forgives sins, heals a paralytic, and calls Matthew—Jesus eats with sinners, heals a woman who touches His garments, and raises Jairus’s daughter to life—He opens the eyes of the blind, casts out a devil, and preaches the gospel. Matthew 10 Jesus instructs and empowers the Twelve Apostles and sends them forth to preach, minister, and heal the sick—Those who receive the Twelve receive the Lord. Matthew 11 Jesus acclaims John as more than a prophet—The cities of Chorazin, Bethsaida, and Capernaum are rebuked for unbelief—The Son reveals the Father—The yoke of Christ is easy, and His burden is light. Matthew 12 Jesus proclaims Himself Lord of the Sabbath and heals on the Sabbath day—He is accused of casting out devils through the power of Beelzebub—He speaks of blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and says that an evil and adulterous generation seeks signs. Matthew 13 Jesus explains why He teaches with parables—He gives the parables of the sower, the wheat and the tares, the grain of mustard seed, the leaven, the treasure hidden in the field, the pearl of great price, and the net cast into the sea—A prophet is not honored by his own people. Matthew 14 John the Baptist is beheaded—Jesus feeds the five thousand and walks on the sea—Those who touch the hem of His garment are made whole. Matthew 15 The scribes and Pharisees contend against Jesus—He heals the daughter of a gentile woman—He feeds the four thousand. Matthew 16 Jesus warns against the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees—Peter testifies that Jesus is the Christ and is promised the keys of the kingdom—Jesus foretells His death and resurrection. Matthew 17 Jesus is transfigured before Peter, James, and John on the mount—Jesus heals a lunatic, tells of His coming death, and pays taxes in a miraculous manner. Matthew 18 Jesus explains how we are to treat our offending brethren—The Son of Man came to save that which was lost—All of the Twelve receive the keys of the kingdom—Jesus explains why we should forgive. Matthew 19 Jesus teaches about marriage and divorce—Eternal life is for those who keep the commandments—The Twelve Apostles will judge the house of Israel. Matthew 20 Jesus gives the parable of the laborers in the vineyard—He foretells His crucifixion and resurrection—He came to give His life as a ransom for many. Matthew 21 Jesus rides in triumph into Jerusalem—He cleanses the temple, curses the fig tree, and discusses authority—He gives the parables of the two sons and the wicked husbandmen. Matthew 22 Jesus gives the parable of the marriage of the king’s son—Pay tribute to Cæsar and to God—Worldly marriages endure in this life only—The first commandment is to love the Lord—Jesus asks, What think ye of Christ? Matthew 23 Jesus pronounces woes upon the scribes and Pharisees—They will be held responsible for killing the prophets—They will not escape the damnation of hell. Matthew 24 Jesus foretells the doom of Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple—Great calamities will precede His Second Coming—He gives the parable of the fig tree. Matthew 25 Jesus gives the parables of the ten virgins, the talents, and the sheep and the goats. Matthew 26 Jesus is anointed—He keeps the Passover and institutes the sacrament—He suffers in Gethsemane, is betrayed by Judas, and is taken before Caiaphas—Peter denies that he knows Jesus. Matthew 27 Jesus is accused and condemned before Pilate—Barabbas is released—Jesus is mocked, crucified, and buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathæa. Matthew 28 Christ the Lord is risen—He appears to many—He has all power in heaven and earth—He sends the Apostles to teach and baptize all nations. Mark Contents Mark 1 Jesus is baptized by John—He preaches the gospel, calls disciples, casts out devils, heals the sick, and cleanses a leper. Mark 2 Jesus forgives sins, heals a paralytic, eats with tax gatherers and sinners, and announces that He is Lord of the Sabbath. Mark 3 Jesus heals on the Sabbath day—He chooses and ordains the Twelve Apostles—He asks, Can Satan cast out Satan?—Jesus speaks of blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and identifies those who believe as being members of His family. Mark 4 Jesus gives the parables of the sower, the candle under a bushel, the seed growing secretly, and the mustard seed—He stills the tempest. Mark 5 Jesus casts out a legion of devils, who then enter the swine—A woman is healed by touching Jesus’ clothes—He raises Jairus’s daughter from the dead. Mark 6 Jesus sends forth the Twelve—John the Baptist is beheaded by Herod—Our Lord feeds the five thousand, walks on the water, and heals multitudes. Mark 7 Jesus reproves the Pharisees for their false traditions and ceremonies—He casts a devil out of the daughter of a Greek woman—He opens the ears and loosens the tongue of a person with an impediment. Mark 8 Jesus feeds the four thousand—He counsels, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees—He heals a blind man in Bethsaida—Peter testifies that Jesus is the Christ. Mark 9 Jesus is transfigured on the mountain—He casts out an unclean spirit—He teaches concerning His death and resurrection, who will be greatest, and the condemnation of those who offend His little ones. Mark 10 Jesus teaches the higher law of marriage—He blesses little children—Jesus counsels the rich young man, foretells His own death, and heals blind Bartimæus. Mark 11 Jesus rides into Jerusalem amid shouts of hosanna—He curses a fig tree, drives the money changers from the temple, and confounds the scribes on the matter of authority. Mark 12 Jesus gives the parable of the wicked husbandmen—He speaks of paying taxes, celestial marriage, the two great commandments, the divine sonship of Christ, and the widow’s mites. Mark 13 Jesus tells of the calamities and signs preceding the Second Coming—There will be false Christs and false prophets—He gives the parable of the fig tree. Mark 14 Jesus is anointed with oil—He eats the Passover, institutes the sacrament, suffers in Gethsemane, and is betrayed by Judas—Jesus is falsely accused, and Peter denies that he knows Him. Mark 15 Pilate decrees the death of Jesus—Jesus is mocked and crucified between two thieves—He dies and is buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathæa. Mark 16 Christ is risen—He appears to Mary Magdalene, then to others—He sends the Apostles to preach and promises that signs will follow faith—He ascends into heaven. Luke Contents Luke 1 Gabriel promises Zacharias that Elisabeth will bear a son, whom they will name John—He also tells Mary that she will be the mother of the Son of God—Mary visits Elisabeth and utters a psalm of praise—John the Baptist is born—Zacharias prophesies of John’s mission. Luke 2 Heavenly messengers herald the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem—He is circumcised, and Simeon and Anna prophesy of His mission—At twelve years of age, He goes about His Father’s business. Luke 3 John the Baptist preaches and baptizes—Jesus is baptized, and God acclaims Him as His Son—Jesus’ genealogy back to Adam is given. Luke 4 Jesus fasts forty days and is tempted by the devil—Jesus announces His divine sonship in Nazareth and is rejected—He casts out a devil in Capernaum, heals Peter’s mother-in-law, and preaches and heals throughout Galilee. Luke 5 Peter, the fisherman, is called to catch men—Jesus heals a leper—He forgives sins and heals a paralytic—Matthew is called—The sick need a physician—New wine must be put in new bottles. Luke 6 Jesus heals on the Sabbath—He chooses the Twelve Apostles—He pronounces blessings upon the obedient and woes upon the wicked. Luke 7 Jesus heals the centurion’s servant—Jesus raises from death the son of the widow of Nain—He praises John the Baptist as more than a prophet—A woman anoints Jesus’ feet, and He forgives her sins. Luke 8 Jesus gives and interprets the parable of the sower—He stills the tempest; casts out a legion of devils, who then enter the swine; heals a woman of an issue of blood; and raises Jairus’s daughter from death. Luke 9 The Twelve are sent out—Jesus feeds the five thousand—Peter testifies of Christ—Jesus foretells His death and resurrection—He is transfigured on the mount—He heals and teaches. Luke 10 Jesus calls, empowers, and instructs the Seventy—They preach and heal—Those who receive Christ’s disciples receive Christ—The Father is revealed by the Son—Jesus gives the parable of the good Samaritan. Luke 11 Jesus gives the Lord’s Prayer—He discusses the casting out of devils—He acclaims Himself as greater than Jonah and Solomon—He rebukes the Pharisees and says that the blood of all the prophets may be required of their generation. Luke 12 Jesus teaches, Beware of hypocrisy; lay up treasures in heaven rather than on earth; prepare for the coming of the Lord; where much is given, much is required; preaching the gospel causes division. Luke 13 Jesus teaches, Repent or perish—He gives the parable of the barren fig tree, heals a woman on the Sabbath, and likens the kingdom of God to a mustard seed—He discusses whether few or many are saved and laments over Jerusalem. Luke 14 Jesus again heals on the Sabbath—He teaches humility and gives the parable of the great supper—Those who follow Him must forsake all else. Luke 15 Jesus gives the parables of the lost sheep, the piece of silver, and the prodigal son. Luke 16 Jesus gives the parable of the unjust steward—He teaches of service and condemns divorce—He gives the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. Luke 17 Jesus speaks of offenses, forgiveness, and faith—Even the faithful are unprofitable servants—Ten lepers are healed—Jesus discourses on the Second Coming. Luke 18 Jesus gives the parables of the unjust judge and the Pharisee and publican—He invites little children to come unto Him and teaches how to gain eternal life—He tells of His coming death and resurrection and gives sight to a blind man. Luke 19 Jesus came to save souls—He gives the parable of the pounds—He rides in triumph into Jerusalem, weeps over the city, and cleanses the temple again. Luke 20 The chief priests oppose Jesus—He gives the parable of the wicked husbandmen—Render unto Cæsar and God that which is theirs—Jesus teaches the law of marriage. Luke 21 Jesus foretells the destruction of the temple and of Jerusalem—He tells of the signs to precede His Second Coming and gives the parable of the fig tree. Luke 22 Jesus institutes the sacrament—He suffers in Gethsemane and is betrayed and arrested—Peter denies knowing Him—Jesus is smitten and mocked. Luke 23 Jesus is taken before Pilate, then to Herod, and then to Pilate again—Barabbas is released—Jesus is crucified between two thieves—He is buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathæa. Luke 24 Angels announce the resurrection of Christ—He walks on the Emmaus road—He appears with a body of flesh and bones, eats food, testifies of His divinity, and promises the Holy Ghost—He ascends into heaven. John Contents John 1 Christ is the Word of God—He created all things and was made flesh—John baptizes Jesus and testifies that He is the Lamb of God—John, Andrew, Simon, Philip, and Nathanael believe in Christ and follow Him. John 2 Jesus turns water into wine in Cana—He attends the Passover, cleanses the temple, foretells His death and resurrection, and performs miracles. John 3 Jesus tells Nicodemus that men must be born again—God so loved the world that He sent His Only Begotten Son to save men—John the Baptist testifies that he that believes on the Son has everlasting life. John 4 Jesus teaches a woman of Samaria—All must worship the Father in spirit and truth—Those who harvest souls gain eternal life—Many Samaritans believe—Jesus heals a nobleman’s son. John 5 Jesus heals an invalid on the Sabbath—He explains why men must honor the Son—Jesus promises to take the gospel to the dead—Man is resurrected, judged, and assigned his glory by the Son—Jesus obeys the divine law of witnesses. John 6 Jesus feeds the five thousand—He walks on the sea—He is the living manna sent from God—Salvation is gained by eating living bread—Jesus explains how men eat His flesh and drink His blood—Peter testifies that Jesus is the Messiah. John 7 Jesus’ kinsmen do not believe—He teaches His Father’s doctrine and proclaims His divine sonship—Truth may be known through obedience—Jesus offers living water to all people—The people have various opinions concerning Him. John 8 The woman taken in adultery is brought before Christ—Christ is the Light of the world—He again proclaims that He is the Messiah—The true children of Abraham believe in Christ—Jesus says, Before Abraham was I, Jehovah. John 9 Jesus, on the Sabbath, heals a man born blind—The Jews accuse Him of Sabbath violation—He lectures them on spiritual blindness. John 10 Jesus is the Good Shepherd—He gained power over death from His Father—He promises to visit His other sheep—He proclaims, I am the Son of God. John 11 Jesus testifies that He is the Resurrection and the Life—Mary and Martha testify of Him—He raises Lazarus from the dead—Caiaphas speaks prophetically of the death of Jesus. John 12 Mary anoints Jesus’ feet—His triumphal entry into Jerusalem is recounted—He foretells His death—To receive Christ is to receive the Father. John 13 Jesus washes the feet of the Twelve—He identifies Judas as His betrayer—He commands them to love one another. John 14 Jesus speaks of many mansions—He says that He is the way, the truth, and the life and that to see Him is to see the Father—He promises the first and second Comforters. John 15 Jesus is the vine; His disciples are the branches—He discourses on the perfect law of love—His servants have been chosen and ordained by Him—The world hates and fights true religion—He promises the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth. John 16 Jesus discourses on the mission of the Holy Ghost—He tells of His death and resurrection, announces that He is the Son of God, and says that He has overcome the world. John 17 Jesus offers the great Intercessory Prayer—He is glorified by gaining eternal life—He prays for His Apostles and all the Saints—He explains how the Father and Son are one. John 18 Jesus is betrayed and arrested—He is examined and maltreated first before Annas, then before Caiaphas—Peter denies knowing Jesus—Jesus is arraigned before Pilate. John 19 Jesus is scourged and crucified—He places His mother in John’s care—He dies and His side is pierced with a spear—He is buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathæa. John 20 Mary Magdalene, Peter, and John find the empty tomb—The risen Christ appears to Mary Magdalene in the garden—He appears to the disciples and shows His resurrected body—Thomas feels the wounds in Jesus’ hands, feet, and side—Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. John 21 Jesus appears to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias—He says, Feed my sheep—He foretells Peter’s martyrdom and that John will not die. Acts Contents Acts 1 Jesus ministers for forty days after His resurrection—The kingdom is to be restored to Israel at a later time—The Twelve are to bear witness in Jerusalem, Judæa, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the earth—Jesus ascends into heaven—Matthias is chosen to fill the vacancy in the Twelve. Acts 2 The Spirit is poured out on the day of Pentecost—Peter testifies of Jesus’ resurrection—He tells how to gain salvation and speaks of the gift of the Holy Ghost—Many believe and are baptized. Acts 3 Peter and John heal a man lame since birth—Peter preaches repentance—He also speaks of the age of restoration preceding the Second Coming—He identifies Christ as the prophet of whom Moses spoke. Acts 4 Peter and John are arrested and brought before the council—Peter testifies that salvation comes because of Christ—The Sadducees strive to silence Peter and John—The Saints glory in the testimony of Jesus—They have all things in common. Acts 5 Ananias and Sapphira lie to the Lord and lose their lives—The Apostles continue the miracles of Jesus—Peter and John are arrested, an angel delivers them from prison, and they testify of Christ—Gamaliel counsels moderation. Acts 6 The Apostles choose seven to assist them—Stephen is tried before the council. Acts 7 Stephen recounts the history of Israel and names Moses as a prototype of Christ—He testifies of the apostasy in Israel—He sees Jesus on the right hand of God—Stephen’s testimony is rejected, and he is stoned to death. Acts 8 Saul persecutes the Church—Philip’s ministry in Samaria is described—Philip performs miracles and baptizes men and women—Peter and John come to Samaria and confer the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands—Simon seeks to buy this gift and is rebuked by Peter—Philip preaches about Christ and baptizes an Ethiopian eunuch. Acts 9 Jesus appears to Saul—Saul is a chosen vessel—Ananias restores Saul’s sight—Saul is baptized and begins his ministry—Peter heals Æneas and raises Dorcas from death. Acts 10 An angel ministers to Cornelius—Peter, in a vision, is commanded to take the gospel to the Gentiles—The gospel is taught by witnesses—The Holy Ghost falls upon the Gentiles. Acts 11 God grants the gift of repentance to the Gentiles—The disciples are first called Christians at Antioch—The Church is guided by revelation. Acts 12 The martyrdom of James is described—An angel frees Peter from prison—The Lord slays Herod by disease—The Church grows. Acts 13 Saul and Barnabas are called to missionary service—Saul, now called Paul, curses a sorcerer—Christ is a descendant of David—Paul offers the gospel to Israel, then to the Gentiles. Acts 14 Persecution attends the spread of the gospel—Paul heals a crippled man; Paul and Barnabas are hailed as gods—Paul is stoned and revived; he preaches—Elders are ordained. Acts 15 Great dissension arises at Antioch concerning circumcision—The Apostles at Jerusalem decide the issue—Paul chooses Silas as his companion. Acts 16 Paul is directed in a vision to preach in Macedonia—He casts an evil spirit out of a woman—He and Silas are imprisoned, and they convert the jailor—They admonish all to believe on the Lord Jesus and be saved. Acts 17 Paul and Silas preach and are persecuted in Thessalonica and in Berea—Paul, in Athens, preaches from Mars’ Hill about the unknown god—He says, We are the offspring of God. Acts 18 Being rejected by the Jews, Paul turns to the Gentiles—He preaches, ministers, and travels—Apollos also preaches with power. Acts 19 Paul confers the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands—He preaches and works many miracles—The sons of Sceva fail to cast out devils by exorcism—The worshippers of Diana (Artemis) raise a tumult against Paul. Acts 20 Paul raises Eutychus from death—Paul is free from the blood of all men—He predicts apostasy from within the Church—He reveals a teaching from Jesus, It is more blessed to give than to receive. Acts 21 Paul journeys to Jerusalem—He is persecuted, arrested, and bound. Acts 22 Paul recounts the story of his conversion and also tells of seeing Jesus in a vision—He is accorded some privileges as a Roman citizen. Acts 23 Paul is smitten at Ananias’s order—The Lord again appears to Paul—Forty Jews plot his death—He is delivered over to Felix. Acts 24 Paul is accused of sedition—He answers in defense of his life and doctrine—He teaches Felix of righteousness, temperance, and the judgment to come. Acts 25 Paul, before Festus, appeals unto Cæsar—Agrippa desires to hear Paul. Acts 26 Paul recounts his former persecution of the Saints as a Pharisee—He testifies of the appearance of Jesus on the Damascus road—Paul bears his testimony to King Agrippa. Acts 27 Paul, in a perilous voyage, travels toward Rome—An angel comforts him—He uses the gift of seership—He is shipwrecked. Acts 28 Paul is unharmed by a viper’s bite—He heals the sick in Melita—He preaches in Rome, first to the Jews and then to the Gentiles. Romans Contents Romans 1 The gospel is the power of God unto salvation through Jesus Christ—The wrath of God rests on those guilty of murder, homosexual practices, fornication, and other sins if the guilty do not repent. Romans 2 God will render to every person according to his or her deeds—Both Jews and Gentiles will be judged by gospel laws. Romans 3 Man is not justified by the law of Moses—He is justified through righteousness, which comes through faith in Christ, made possible through Christ’s atoning sacrifice. Romans 4 Abraham’s faith was accounted to him for righteousness—Man is justified by faith, righteous works, and grace. Romans 5 Man is justified through the blood of Christ—Adam fell, and Christ atoned that man might be saved. Romans 6 Baptism is in similitude of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ—The wages of sin is death—Christ brings eternal life. Romans 7 The law of Moses is fulfilled in Christ—Paul delights in the law of God after the inward man. Romans 8 The law of Christ brings life and peace—Those adopted as children of God become joint heirs with Christ—God’s elect are foreordained to eternal life—Christ makes intercession for man. Romans 9 Paul explains how the law of election (foreordination) operates—The people of Israel are chosen (foreordained) to receive the adoption, covenants, promises, and blessings of the gospel; yet they are not all Israel who are of Israel—They must seek their blessings by faith—The Gentiles also attain to righteousness and salvation by faith. Romans 10 Salvation comes through righteousness to those who believe in Christ—Faith comes by hearing the gospel taught by legal administrators sent of God. Romans 11 Israel was chosen (foreordained) according to the election of grace—But some harden their hearts against it—The Gentiles are adopted into the house of Israel—The gospel goes preferentially to the Gentiles until the fulness of the Gentiles. Romans 12 Paul counsels the Saints to present their bodies as a living sacrifice, to use their own grace-given gifts, and to live as Saints should live. Romans 13 Paul counsels, Be subject unto God’s ministers; keep the commandments; love one another; righteousness leads to salvation. Romans 14 Avoid quarreling about opinions and making unrighteous judgment of each other—Every knee will bow to Christ—The kingdom of God embraces righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. Romans 15 True Saints fellowship one another—Paul recounts his diligence in preaching the gospel—The gifts of the Spirit are poured out upon the Gentiles. Romans 16 Paul sends greetings to various Saints—He counsels the Saints to avoid those who cause divisions—The Saints should be wise concerning good and innocent concerning evil. 1 Corinthians Contents 1 Corinthians 1 True Saints are perfectly united in the same mind and in the same judgment—Preach the gospel and save souls—The gospel is preached by the weak and the simple. 1 Corinthians 2 The gospel is preached by the power of the Spirit—The Spirit reveals all things to the Saints—The unrepentant natural man cannot receive the things of the Spirit of God. 1 Corinthians 3 Milk comes before meat in the Church—Men’s works will be tried by fire—The Saints are the temple of God, and if they are faithful, they will inherit all things. 1 Corinthians 4 Christ’s ministers must be faithful—The Apostles suffer, minister, and keep the faith—The kingdom of God is not in word but in power. 1 Corinthians 5 The Church cannot fellowship sinners—Christ, our passover, was sacrificed for us. 1 Corinthians 6 Church members should not fight one another in the courts—The unrighteous will not be saved—True Saints are the temple of the Holy Ghost. 1 Corinthians 7 Paul answers special questions about marriage among those called on missions—Paul praises self-discipline. 1 Corinthians 8 There are many gods and many lords—To us there is one God (the Father) and one Lord, who is Christ. 1 Corinthians 9 Paul rejoices in his Christian liberty—He preaches the gospel to all without charge—He is all things to all men to gain converts. 1 Corinthians 10 Christ is the God of Israel and the spiritual Rock that guided them—Ancient Israel rebelled against Christ—Paul contrasts true and false sacraments. 1 Corinthians 11 Paul speaks of certain customs of hair and grooming—Heresies will arise that test and prove the faithful—The sacramental emblems are partaken in remembrance of the flesh and blood of Christ—Beware of partaking unworthily. 1 Corinthians 12 The Holy Ghost reveals that Jesus is the Christ—Spiritual gifts are present among the Saints—Apostles, prophets, and miracles are found in the true Church. 1 Corinthians 13 Paul discusses the high status of charity—Charity, a pure love, excels and exceeds almost all else. 1 Corinthians 14 People should desire spiritual gifts—Tongues and prophecy are compared—Prophecy is the greater gift—Paul says, You may all prophesy; covet to prophesy. 1 Corinthians 15 Christ died for our sins—He rose from the dead and was seen by many—All men will be resurrected—Paul speaks of baptism for the dead—The three degrees of glory are described—Victory over death comes through Christ. 1 Corinthians 16 Paul counsels, Stand fast in the faith; let all things be done with charity. 2 Corinthians Contents 2 Corinthians 1 God comforts and cares for His Saints—The Saints are sealed and given assurance by the Spirit in their hearts. 2 Corinthians 2 Saints should love and forgive one another—They always triumph in Christ. 2 Corinthians 3 The gospel surpasses the law of Moses—Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. 2 Corinthians 4 Gospel light shines on the Saints—Mortal trials are nothing as contrasted with eternal glory. 2 Corinthians 5 Saints walk by faith and seek tabernacles of immortal glory—The gospel reconciles man to God—God’s ministers carry the word of reconciliation to the world. 2 Corinthians 6 Now is the day of salvation—God’s ministers must walk uprightly and bear all things—Saints should not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. 2 Corinthians 7 Godly sorrow for sin leads to repentance—The sorrow of the world leads to death. 2 Corinthians 8 True Saints impart of their substance to the poor—Christ, out of His poverty, brought eternal riches. 2 Corinthians 9 God loves and rewards a cheerful giver—Thanks be to God for His unspeakable gift. 2 Corinthians 10 Bring every thought into obedience—Paul glories in the Lord. 2 Corinthians 11 Maintain the simplicity that is in Christ—Satan sends forth false apostles—Paul glories in his sufferings for Christ. 2 Corinthians 12 Paul is caught up to the third heaven—The Lord gives men weaknesses that they may triumph over them—Paul manifests the signs of an Apostle. 2 Corinthians 13 Saints should test themselves as to righteousness—Be perfect and of one mind; live in peace. Galatians Contents Galatians 1 Preachers of false gospels are accursed—Paul received the gospel by revelation—He believed, was taught, and preached to the Gentiles. Galatians 2 Paul goes to Jerusalem—He contends for the true gospel—Salvation comes through Christ. Galatians 3 God gave the gospel to Abraham—The Mosaic law was added because of transgressions—The law was a schoolmaster until Christ—The Saints are children of God by faith—All who are of the faith and baptized into Christ become Abraham’s seed. Galatians 4 The Saints are children of God by adoption—Paul calls the Galatians back to Christ—He compares the two covenants. Galatians 5 Stand fast in gospel liberty—Seek faith, love, Christ, and the Spirit—The works of the flesh and the fruits of the Spirit are named. Galatians 6 Bear one another’s burdens—As you sow, so shall you reap—Be not weary in well-doing. Ephesians Contents Ephesians 1 The Saints are foreordained to receive the gospel—The gospel is to be restored in the latter days—The Saints are sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise—They know God and Christ by revelation. Ephesians 2 We are saved by grace through faith—The blood of Christ saves Jew and Gentile alike—The Church is built upon the foundation of apostles and prophets. Ephesians 3 The Gentiles are fellow heirs with Israel—The love of Christ surpasses all understanding. Ephesians 4 There is one Lord, one faith, and one baptism—Apostles and prophets are essential to the Church—The Saints are exhorted to live righteously—They are sealed unto the day of redemption. Ephesians 5 The Saints are exhorted to avoid uncleanness and walk uprightly—Husbands and wives should love each other. Ephesians 6 Children should honor their parents—Servants and masters are judged by the same law—Saints should put on the whole armor of God. Philippians Contents Philippians 1 All that happened to Paul furthered the gospel cause—Our conduct should be worthy of the gospel. Philippians 2 Saints should be of one mind and one spirit—Every knee will bow to Christ—Saints must work out their salvation—Paul faces martyrdom with joy. Philippians 3 Paul sacrifices all things for Christ—True ministers set examples of righteousness. Philippians 4 Stand fast in the Lord—We believe in being honest, true, and chaste. Colossians Contents Colossians 1 Redemption comes through Christ—He created all things, is in the image of God, and is the Firstborn of the Father. Colossians 2 The fulness of the Godhead dwells in Christ—Beware of being deceived by the traditions of men—The handwriting against us was nailed to the cross of Christ. Colossians 3 Some lives are hidden with God in Christ—The Saints are told to be holy and to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Colossians 4 The Saints are told to be wise in all things—Luke and others greet the Colossians. 1 Thessalonians Contents 1 Thessalonians 1 The gospel comes both in word and in power. 1 Thessalonians 2 True ministers preach in a godly manner—Converts are the glory and joy of missionaries. 1 Thessalonians 3 The Saints are told to perfect that which is lacking in their faith. 1 Thessalonians 4 The Saints are told to be holy, sanctify themselves, and love one another—The Lord will come, and the dead will rise. 1 Thessalonians 5 The Saints will know the season of the Second Coming of Christ—Live the way Saints should live—Rejoice evermore—Do not despise prophesyings. 2 Thessalonians Contents 2 Thessalonians 1 At His Second Coming, the Lord Jesus will take vengeance upon the ungodly. 2 Thessalonians 2 Apostasy is to precede the Second Coming—The gospel prepares men for eternal glory. 2 Thessalonians 3 Pray for the triumph of the gospel cause—Paul preaches the gospel of work—Be not weary in well-doing. 1 Timothy Contents 1 Timothy 1 Counsel is given to teach true doctrine only—Christ came to save repentant sinners. 1 Timothy 2 We should pray for all people—Christ is our Mediator—Women should dress modestly—Women are blessed in childbearing and are admonished to continue in faith, charity, and holiness. 1 Timothy 3 Qualifications are given for bishops and deacons—Great is the mystery of godliness. 1 Timothy 4 Paul describes the latter-day apostasy—Christ is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. 1 Timothy 5 Saints are to care for their worthy poor—Policies concerning elders are given. 1 Timothy 6 The love of money is the root of all evil—Fight the good fight of faith—Do not trust in worldly riches. 2 Timothy Contents 2 Timothy 1 Christ brings immortality and eternal life through the gospel—Be strong in the faith. 2 Timothy 2 Christ gives eternal glory to the elect—Shun contention and seek godliness. 2 Timothy 3 Paul describes the apostasy and perilous times of the last days—The scriptures guide man to salvation. 2 Timothy 4 Paul gives a solemn charge to preach the gospel in a day of apostasy—Paul and all Saints are assured of exaltation. Titus Contents Titus 1 Eternal life was promised before the world began—The qualifications of bishops are given—Unto the pure, all things are pure. Titus 2 Saints should live righteously, deny ungodliness, and seek the Lord. Titus 3 Saints must live righteously after baptism. Philemon Philemon 1 The gospel changes a servant into a brother. Hebrews Contents Hebrews 1 The Son is in the express image of the person of the Father—Christ is the Only Begotten Son and thus above the angels. Hebrews 2 Jesus came to suffer death and save men—He came to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Hebrews 3 Christ is the Apostle and High Priest of our profession—Jesus, being the Son, is more than a servant—Now is the time and the day of our salvation. Hebrews 4 The gospel was offered to ancient Israel—Saints enter into the rest of the Lord—Though tempted in all points, Jesus was without sin. Hebrews 5 For a man to hold the priesthood, he must be called of God as was Aaron—Christ was a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek—Jesus Christ is the Author of eternal salvation. Hebrews 6 Let us go on to perfection—The sons of perdition crucify Christ anew—God swears with an oath that the faithful will be saved. Hebrews 7 The Melchizedek Priesthood brings exaltation and administers the gospel—It is received with an oath and covenant—The superiority of the Melchizedek Priesthood over the Aaronic Priesthood is explained—Salvation comes through the intercession of Christ. Hebrews 8 Christ offered Himself as a sacrifice for sin—God promised to make a new covenant with Israel. Hebrews 9 The Mosaic ordinances prefigured Christ’s ministry—Christ is the Mediator of the new covenant. Hebrews 10 We are sanctified by the shedding of the blood of Christ—The superiority of His sacrifice is explained—Those who fall from grace through willful sin are damned—The just will live by faith. Hebrews 11 By faith we understand the word and work of God—The faith of the ancients was centered in Christ—By faith, men subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, and worked miracles. Hebrews 12 Whom the Lord loves He chastens—God is the Father of spirits—To see God, follow peace and holiness—Exalted Saints belong to the Church of the Firstborn. Hebrews 13 Marriage is honorable—Christ is the same everlastingly—Paul explains how the Saints are to offer acceptable sacrifices. James Contents James 1 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God—Resist temptation—Be doers of the word—James explains how to recognize pure religion. James 2 God has chosen the poor of this world who are rich in faith—Salvation is gained by keeping the whole law—Faith without works is dead. James 3 By governing the tongue, we gain perfection—Heavenly wisdom is pure, peaceable, and full of mercy. James 4 Wars are born of lusts—The friends of the world are the enemies of God—Sin is failure to walk in the light we have received. James 5 Misery awaits the wanton rich—Await the Lord’s coming with patience—The elders are to anoint and heal the sick. 1 Peter Contents 1 Peter 1 The trial of our faith precedes salvation—Christ was foreordained to be the Redeemer. 1 Peter 2 Converts are newborn babes in Christ—He is the chief cornerstone—Saints hold a royal priesthood and are a peculiar people—Saints are in subjection to the laws of man. 1 Peter 3 Husbands and wives should honor each other—Saints should live by gospel standards—Christ preached to the spirits in prison. 1 Peter 4 Peter explains why the gospel is preached to the dead—Saints should speak as the oracles of God—The righteous will be tried and tested in all things. 1 Peter 5 The elders are to feed the flock of God—Humility and godly graces lead to perfection. 2 Peter Contents 2 Peter 1 Peter urges the Saints to make their calling and election sure—Prophecy comes by the power of the Holy Ghost. 2 Peter 2 False teachers among the Saints are damned—Lustful Saints will perish in their own corruption. 2 Peter 3 Some in the latter days will doubt the Second Coming—The elements will melt at the coming of the Lord. 1 John Contents 1 John 1 The Saints gain fellowship with God by obedience—We must confess our sins to gain forgiveness. 1 John 2 Christ is our Advocate with the Father—We know God by obedience—Love not the world—Anti-Christs will come in the last days. 1 John 3 The sons of God will become like Christ—Love for others is required to gain eternal life—Obedience ensures us an answer to our prayers. 1 John 4 Try the spirits—God is love and dwells in those who love Him. 1 John 5 Saints are born of God through belief in Christ—Water, blood, and the Spirit testify of Christ—Belief in Christ is required in order to gain eternal life. 2 John 2 John 1 John rejoices because the children of the elect lady are true and faithful. 3 John 3 John 1 John commends Gaius for his help to those who love the truth. Jude Jude 1 Contend for the faith—Some angels kept not their first estate—Michael disputed about the body of Moses—Enoch prophesied of the Second Coming—Mockers will come in the last days. Revelation Contents Revelation 1 Christ chooses some as kings and priests unto God—Christ will come again—John sees the risen Lord. Revelation 2 He who overcomes will gain eternal life, avoid the second death, inherit the celestial kingdom, and rule many kingdoms. Revelation 3 He who overcomes will retain his name in the book of life, reach godhood, and be with Jesus as He is with the Father. Revelation 4 John sees the celestial earth, the throne of God, and all created things worshipping the Lord. Revelation 5 John sees the book sealed with seven seals, and he sees those people redeemed out of every nation—He hears every creature praising God and the Lamb. Revelation 6 Christ opens the six seals, and John sees the events therein—In the fifth seal, he sees the Christian martyrs; and in the sixth, he sees the signs of the times. Revelation 7 John also sees in the sixth seal the Restoration of the gospel, the sealing of the 144,000, and the hosts of the exalted from all nations. Revelation 8 John sees fire and desolation poured out during the seventh seal and preceding the Second Coming. Revelation 9 John also sees the wars and plagues poured out during the seventh seal and before the Lord comes. Revelation 10 John seals up many things relative to the last days—He is commissioned to participate in the restoration of all things. Revelation 11 In the last days, two prophets will be slain in Jerusalem—After 3½ days, they will be resurrected—Christ will reign over all the earth. Revelation 12 John sees the imminent apostasy of the Church—He also sees the War in Heaven in the beginning when Satan was cast out—He sees the continuation of that war on earth. Revelation 13 John sees fierce-looking beasts that represent degenerate earthly kingdoms controlled by Satan—The devil works miracles and deceives men. Revelation 14 The Lamb will stand upon Mount Zion—The gospel will be restored in the last days by angelic ministry—The Son of Man will harvest the earth. Revelation 15 Exalted Saints praise God in celestial glory forever. Revelation 16 God pours out plagues upon the wicked—The nations assemble for Armageddon—Christ comes, islands flee, and mountains cease. Revelation 17 John is shown that Babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations, has become established throughout the earth. Revelation 18 The Saints are called out of Babylon lest they partake of her sins—She falls and is lamented by her supporters. Revelation 19 The marriage supper of the Lamb is made ready—The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy—Christ is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Revelation 20 Satan is bound during the Millennium—The Saints will then live and reign with Christ—The dead stand before God and are judged out of the books according to their works. Revelation 21 Those who overcome will be sons of God—The earth attains its celestial glory. Revelation 22 The Saints will reign in celestial splendor—Christ will come, and men will be judged—Blessed are they who keep His commandments.